# 🐊 GATOR 
## Apply `gatorModels` to new images.
**lease keep in mind that the sample data is used for demonstration purposes only and has been simplified and reduced in size. It is solely intended for educational purposes on how to execute `Gator` and will not yeild any meaningful results.**

**Download the [exemplar dataset](https://github.com/nirmalLab/gatorpy/tree/main/docs/Tutorials/gatorExampleData) and [executable notebook](https://github.com/nirmalLab/gatorpy/blob/main/docs/Tutorials/notebooks/ApplyModel.ipynb)**
  
Make sure you have completed `Build Model` Tutorial before you try to execute this Jupyter Notebook!


```python
# import packages
import gatorpy as ga
import os
```

**We need `three` input for this module to run**
- The generated Model
- Raw Image
- markers.csv file that maps the marker names and the gatorModel.


```python
# set the working directory & set paths to the example data
cwd = '/Users/aj/Desktop/gatorExampleData'

# Apply gatorModels
imagePath = cwd + '/image/exampleImage.tif'
markerChannelMapPath = cwd + '/markers.csv'
gatorModelPath = cwd + '/GATOR/gatorModel/'

# Generate gatorScores
probabilityMaskPath = cwd + '/GATOR/gatorPredict/exampleImage_gatorPredict.ome.tif'
segmentationPath = cwd + '/segmentation/exampleSegmentationMask.tif'
```

## Step-1: Apply the generated Models on the Image of interest (Pixel Level)

The function `gatorPredict` is employed to make predictions about the expression of a specified marker on cells in new images using the models generated by `gatorTrain`. This calculation is done at the pixel level, resulting in an output image where the number of channels corresponds to the number of models applied to the input image. The parameter `markerChannelMapPath` is used to associate the image channel number with the relevant model to be applied.


```python
outputDir = cwd

ga.gatorPredict( imagePath=imagePath,
                 gatorModelPath=gatorModelPath,
                 outputDir=outputDir, 
                 markerChannelMapPath=markerChannelMapPath, 
                 markerColumnName='marker', 
                 channelColumnName='channel', 
                 modelColumnName='gatormodel', 
                 GPU=-1)
```

    Running gator model ECAD on channel 2 corresponding to marker ECAD
    loading data
    WARNING:tensorflow:From /opt/anaconda3/envs/gator/lib/python3.9/site-packages/keras/layers/normalization/batch_normalization.py:561: _colocate_with (from tensorflow.python.framework.ops) is deprecated and will be removed in a future version.
    Instructions for updating:
    Colocations handled automatically by placer.


    /Users/aj/Dropbox (Partners HealthCare)/nirmal lab/softwares/gatorpy/gatorpy/UNet.py:135: UserWarning: `tf.layers.batch_normalization` is deprecated and will be removed in a future version. Please use `tf.keras.layers.BatchNormalization` instead. In particular, `tf.control_dependencies(tf.GraphKeys.UPDATE_OPS)` should not be used (consult the `tf.keras.layers.BatchNormalization` documentation).
      bn = tf.nn.leaky_relu(tf.layers.batch_normalization(c00+shortcut, training=UNet2D.tfTraining))
    /Users/aj/Dropbox (Partners HealthCare)/nirmal lab/softwares/gatorpy/gatorpy/UNet.py:157: UserWarning: `tf.layers.batch_normalization` is deprecated and will be removed in a future version. Please use `tf.keras.layers.BatchNormalization` instead. In particular, `tf.control_dependencies(tf.GraphKeys.UPDATE_OPS)` should not be used (consult the `tf.keras.layers.BatchNormalization` documentation).
      lbn = tf.nn.leaky_relu(tf.layers.batch_normalization(
    /Users/aj/Dropbox (Partners HealthCare)/nirmal lab/softwares/gatorpy/gatorpy/UNet.py:160: UserWarning: `tf.layers.dropout` is deprecated and will be removed in a future version. Please use `tf.keras.layers.Dropout` instead.
      return tf.layers.dropout(lbn, 0.15, training=UNet2D.tfTraining)
    /Users/aj/Dropbox (Partners HealthCare)/nirmal lab/softwares/gatorpy/gatorpy/UNet.py:222: UserWarning: `tf.layers.batch_normalization` is deprecated and will be removed in a future version. Please use `tf.keras.layers.BatchNormalization` instead. In particular, `tf.control_dependencies(tf.GraphKeys.UPDATE_OPS)` should not be used (consult the `tf.keras.layers.BatchNormalization` documentation).
      tf.layers.batch_normalization(tf.nn.conv2d(cc, luXWeights2, strides=[1, 1, 1, 1], padding='SAME'),


    loading data
    loading data
    0
    1
    INFO:tensorflow:Restoring parameters from /Users/aj/Desktop/gatorExampleData/GATOR/gatorModel/ECAD/model.ckpt


    /Users/aj/Dropbox (Partners HealthCare)/nirmal lab/softwares/gatorpy/gatorpy/UNet.py:243: UserWarning: `tf.layers.batch_normalization` is deprecated and will be removed in a future version. Please use `tf.keras.layers.BatchNormalization` instead. In particular, `tf.control_dependencies(tf.GraphKeys.UPDATE_OPS)` should not be used (consult the `tf.keras.layers.BatchNormalization` documentation).
      return tf.layers.batch_normalization(


    Model restored.
    Inference...
    Running gator model CD3D on channel 5 corresponding to marker CD3D
    loading data
    loading data
    loading data
    0
    1
    INFO:tensorflow:Restoring parameters from /Users/aj/Desktop/gatorExampleData/GATOR/gatorModel/CD3D/model.ckpt
    Model restored.
    Inference...


**Same function if the user wants to run it via Command Line Interface**
```
python gatorPredict.py --imagePath /Users/aj/Desktop/gatorExampleData/image/exampleImage.tif --gatorModelPath /Users/aj/Desktop/gatorExampleData/GATOR/gatorModel/ --outputDir /Users/aj/Desktop/gatorExampleData --markerChannelMapPath /Users/aj/Desktop/gatorExampleData/markers.csv
```

## Step-2: Calculate the gatorScore (Single-cell Level)

### After calculating pixel-level probability scores, the next step is to aggregate them to the single-cell level. This can be done by computing the mean or median probability scores using pre-computed segmentation masks. The marker names, if available, should already be included in the probabilityMask image. If the marker names are lost due to file manipulation, the user can provide them through the markerNames parameter.


```python
ga.generateGatorScore(probabilityMaskPath=probabilityMaskPath,
                      segmentationMaskPath=segmentationPath,
                      feature='median',
                      outputDir=cwd)
```

    Quantifying the probability masks


**Same function if the user wants to run it via Command Line Interface**
```
python generateDLScore.py --probabilityMaskPath /Users/aj/Desktop/gatorExampleData/dlPredict/exampleProbabiltyMap.ome.tif --segmentationMask /Users/aj/Desktop/gatorExampleData/segmentation/exampleSegmentationMask.tif --markerNames ECAD CD45 CD4 CD3D CD8A CD45R Ki67 --outputDir /Users/aj/Desktop/gatorExampleData/

#### If you head over to `GATOR/DLScore/`, you will find the `.csv` file with the DLScores for every cell.


```python
# this tutorial ends here. Move to the Apply Model Tutorial
```
